Hello.
Welcome to session 146,
Cocoa Advanced View Techniques.
This will be our final
Cocoa session of the week,
so thank you very much for coming.
My name is Troy Stephens.
I'm an application
frameworks engineer at Apple,
where I work specifically on AppKit,
and I'm here today to talk
to you about Cocoa Views.
And in particular,
what I want to do is show you some of the
neat kinds of things that you can do with
Views in your applications by leveraging
some of the fantastic new technologies
and APIs that we have on Tiger.
But in addition to focusing on Tiger,
I'm going to point out along the
course of the talk a couple of things
that are long-standing facilities
that we have in Cocoa in AppKit and
in Interface Builder that are
maybe underutilized by developers.
So first we'll dive in and just
do a quick review of Views,
what Views are,
and then we'll dive into our content.
So Views, as you know,
are the basic building blocks of
window content in a Cocoa application.
They are your application's
primary interface to its users.
They are the application's means of
presenting its underlying data modeling.
So you can see that the view
is a view that is visually,
in some form, visually,
and giving the users a chance to
interact with and edit that data model
or whatever data you have to provide.
You can think of Views productively
as rectangles of responsibility.
A view is responsible for
drawing in its own content area.
So when the window is asked to draw,
the view has to draw its own content.
Views are responsible
for handling user input,
namely, specifically,
keyboard and mouse events.
Views can be nested in
a tree or hierarchy.
They support arbitrary, nearly arbitrary,
affine coordinate transforms.
You can do translations, scaling,
rotations.
So if you have some
particular kind of data,
like a graph you want to draw,
and you have a particular convenient
coordinate system you want to draw in,
you can set up that coordinate system
so you can work in it natively and
handle user events in it natively.
Views, remember,
View is a kind of responder.
So Views participate
in the responder chain,
which is a very important, flexible,
dynamic mechanism that AppKit provides
for passing messages around and
handling action messages specifically,
especially from, say, menu items.
Views are an integral part of
the drag and drop architecture.
You're always dragging
from a view or to a view,
usually, in a Cocoa application.
And they are part of the unified drawing
and printing architecture whereby,
you know, if you've set up your view
to draw itself on the screen,
then you pretty much have everything
or almost everything you need to go
ahead and print that same content
out to a printing output device.
And there's a whole lot more
functionality in NSView.
You have support for tool tips,
cursor management, tracking racks,
and so forth.
So it's a very complex,
integral part of the AppKit.
And remember that controls are Views,
too.
A control is just a
special subclass of View,
a kind of View that typically
delegates a lot of its drawing and
event handling responsibility to an
associated cell or cell instances.
And incidentally,
controls can also have an integer
tag value that Views don't have,
which gives you sort of an
old-fashioned but sometimes useful
way to distinguish between different
Views in a window and find Views.
So, NSView is a very complex,
integral part of the AppKit that
gives us a lot of topics we could
potentially talk about today.
To focus our talk down,
what I'm going to do is we're
going to take a look at a
concrete example application.
And we're going to look at the
ways that some of these sort of
View-related challenges that come
up in the course of implementing
that application can be addressed.
And so,
I was thinking about what might make
kind of a fun or interesting and maybe
even useful example app for today's talk.
And I was thinking about one thing
that I have a ton of nowadays,
and we all have a lot of,
is digital image files, right?
I've got a digital camera that
just keeps cranking them out,
and I don't know what
to do with them all.
And I get these images,
and it's not so much the organizational
problem that I want to address today,
but typically, you know,
the thing I most often want to
do is I want to scale them down,
right?
I've got these, you know, say,
2 megapixel images.
I've got kind of an old camera here.
It's showing its age.
But I've got these high-resolution
images that I want to take,
and maybe I want to reference them.
I want to reference them from a web
page or attach them to an email,
and I want to scale them down.
So I thought, well,
AppKit and Quartz contain ample
functionality for doing this kind
of thing and implementing a real
lightweight tool for this kind of thing.
We have the ability to read and write
standard image file formats like JPEG,
TIFF, PNG, and so on,
and also the ability to do compositing
with different kinds of transforms.
So we could actually do the scaling
using AppKit and Quartz alone,
but now on Tiger, we have Core Image,
which is this fantastic
library of images.
It's a fantastic library
of incredibly powerful,
incredibly fast image
manipulation capabilities.
And so with all these
capabilities combined,
I launched off to make an
application and produce this.
This is Reducer.
This will be the example application
that we'll look at today.
And the source code for this is online.
It somehow didn't manage to
make it into the composite
disk image for the conference.
But if you go to
developer.apple.com/sourcecode
and search for Reducer,
you'll find it's been online all week.
And I've got the full
source code for this,
so everything I'm going to talk about
today you can study in detail later.
So what are the basic
features of this app?
First of all,
first thing we wanted to do, of course,
is to downsample images,
both to produce a smaller physical image,
smaller number of pixels,
and also to produce a smaller
file for attaching to an
email or pulling over the web.
So that's the first thing we want to do.
Now oftentimes,
when you downsample an image,
that kind of tends to
blur it a little bit.
It gets a little fuzzed out.
So it would be kind of
nice to sharpen that image.
Once upon a time,
this would have been like,
what am I going to do to find
a library that does this?
And now all this stuff is
built in in Core Image.
And Tiger, hopefully,
had a chance to attend the
Core Image talks earlier this week,
or will have a chance later to
review the recordings from those.
So now you can just take an image
and hand it to Core Image and say,
hey, you, sharpen this.
And you get it back.
You're a sharpened image.
And there are all kinds of
other things that you can do.
So we're just going to
keep it simple right now.
But once you're hooked into Core Image,
there are all kinds of things
you can do with images.
So maybe next,
we want to add some decorations,
maybe add a border to our images.
Add a drop shadow.
And then we want to save the
result out in one of these
standard image file formats,
like JPEG.
And then maybe we're going
to put it on a web page.
So we might as well have this
tool generate an HTML image tag,
real simple,
a string that we can copy to the
pasteboard and paste into our web page.
So in the course of looking
at this reducer example,
we're going to cover a
variety of techniques,
including some new APIs on Tiger.
We'll look at using NSAnimation,
the new NSAnimation and NSViewAnimation
classes that we've added to AppKit and
Tiger to help you sort of liven up
and animate your state changes in
your views and bring your UI to life.
We'll also look at using
CoreImage in general together
with the Cocoa applications.
Very easy to do this.
Very straightforward.
And we'll look at some new drawing,
what we call the drawing
redirection methods in NSView.
It's a set of three new methods
in NSView and a method in
NSGraphicsContext that enable
you to take a subtree of views,
essentially,
and ask it to draw somewhere other
than in the window where it resides.
Or you can have a view subtree
that doesn't even reside
in the window currently,
and you can have it render
out to a bitmap or something,
just that subtree,
so that you can then use
that bitmap for something.
So in the course of looking
at all these new things,
we're also going to look at some
stuff that's maybe not quite so new,
but still very shiny.
We'll look at using an NSOpenGL context
with an arbitrary NSView.
And we'll also look at what's involved
in creating custom views in general
and creating palettes for those views
so that you can really make them first
class citizens in the Cocoa world.
And then lastly,
we'll also look at making
the views when you do that.
How do you make a custom views
attributes bindable in Interface Builder?
So let's go over to demo one and
first take a quick look at our
completed example application
just to get an idea what it does.
So here it is.
This is the reducer
application version 1.0.
And we've got our main parameters
window here on the left,
the vertical window.
And it's got sort of an image well
where we can drag in an image.
Let's see,
we've got some example images here.
And I can drag something in.
And this is the result window
here where we display a preview of
what's going to be output to the
file when we go ahead and save.
So we've got our reduced image.
I've got a 1600 by 1200 image.
I've reduced it down.
You know,
we can drag in a different image.
We can work with this one here.
And I'll maybe make it a little bigger.
I would actually want
to reduce it smaller,
but so you can see a little
more what's going on.
So I've reduced it to about a
quarter of the number of pixels,
half the size in each dimension.
And, you know, it's a little fuzzy,
so I might like to sharpen
it and clean it up a bit.
And that adds some nice sharpness,
really brings that face out.
We can slide.
We have an intensity parameter
for the -- this is just a CI,
unsharp mask filter.
And we can slide that along,
get less sharpness, more sharpness,
really somewhere in the middle.
Moderation is a good thing,
so right in the middle there.
And there's a radius parameter
that we can adjust to.
We might want to add
a border to the image,
you know, give it some thickness.
This is stuff that I'm doing after
the fact with regular quartz drawings,
Bezier path.
And we can even round
the corners a little bit.
And change the color, you know,
that Bezier path, real simple,
straightforward stuff.
I like white.
Let's stick with white there.
Neutral frame.
And we can add a drop
shadow underneath it.
So let's say then we really want sort
of more of a 400 pixel wide image.
Or at least the image itself
when scaled down will be that.
We add a little more for the shadow.
And then we're going to go ahead
and click the saving tab here.
And we have a variety of formats
we can choose to save in.
Maybe we'll save in PNG because here
we have some transparency information.
We have a shadow that we want to be
able to drop onto any color background.
So let's just save it as a PNG.
And we'll give it a name.
Save it out.
And there's our PNG file in the desktop.
And I can open that up in
preview and just look at it.
And we can see that if I change
the background color here,
It's a little hard to see the shadow,
and probably especially hard
on that projection screen.
No, you can't see it at all, sorry.
But it's there,
and it obviously doesn't have
fixed white behind it or whatever,
so minor detail here.
So let's say I've got this image,
you know, and maybe I've got my
photo album from my trip.
I'll open this up in Safari.
I've got some various pictures in here.
So let's go ahead and open
that HTML file in TextEdit.
It's just a real simple HTML file.
Let's say I want to put
that image at the top.
I go over to Reducer,
and this is real simple stuff,
copying a string, composing a string.
Since we happen to know the width
and height of the image in pixels,
we can go ahead and stick that in
and not have to type it by hand.
And we paste it in and save,
and then go back and
reload our photo album.
And there's our picture there.
And so back here.
And we just keep doing this.
And so there you go.
Oh, we got a couple copies
of that in there now.
So anyhow,
so that's the reducer application.
That's basically what it does.
Something interesting to
note about the UI here,
you've noticed we have these
collapsible boxes here that contain
the different parameters in them.
And so if, you know,
I don't want to border, let's say,
on the image, well then I have a bunch of
parameters that are irrelevant.
So there are different
things you can do in that.
In that kind of case in your UI,
you can just disable the controls and
leave them visible but maybe you want
to reclaim some real estate here,
you know,
so you can have that box collapse
down and the one underneath
it slides up and so forth.
And this is all stuff that's done
with NSAnimation and we'll see in a
little bit how that is accomplished.
So I think that's it for this demo and
if we could go back to the slides please.
So that's the reducer application.
I'm going to talk a little bit later
about the image processing pipeline.
It's mostly pretty straightforward.
There's an image reducer object that's
responsible for doing all sort of the
heavy image lifting in the application.
I won't go into the code in detail,
but it's there for you to study.
It's quite straightforward.
And I'll just talk about the
overall architecture later.
But this is, after all, a ViewTalk.
So I'm going to focus primarily
on some of the custom views that
I've used in this application,
the collapsible box
that I just mentioned.
And we've also got what you might
think would be an ordinary image
view here in the result window.
But it turns out that
for performance reasons,
I've decided to implement what
I call a hybrid image view.
It's not actually an image view subclass.
It's an ordinary NS view.
And what it can do is switch back and
forth on the fly invisibly between doing
quartz drawing and doing open GL drawing.
And we'll look at how that
can be done a little later.
But we'll start simple with collapsible
box and work our way to more advanced
stuff through the course of the talk.
So how do we make this collapsible box?
Well,
it's pretty simple and straightforward,
but it gives us a good context for this.
First, why would you want to
create a custom view at all?
There are two basic reasons
why you might want to do this,
to my mind.
First,
you might have an existing control whose
appearance you might want to customize.
An existing AppKit control,
you want to change the
appearance a little bit.
Or maybe, as in this case,
you want to change the behavior.
You want to make something that knows
how to expand and collapse itself.
So that's one case.
Or you might have some general
user-defined data that you
need to present to the user.
And it could be anything.
You want to start with a blank slate.
So you want to just subclass NSView and
go ahead and do all your own drawing
and all your own event handling.
So you could do that, too.
We're going to look at
examples of both today,
but we're going to start
with collapsible box,
which is an example of the former.
And this is real simple,
so I'll go through it pretty quickly
so we can get to the advanced stuff.
We start by subclassing NSBox,
because I decided
I like the way it looks.
It's got this nice inset
when it's in a metal window,
and It's got the rounded
corners and everything.
The appearance is fine.
I just want to add some behavior.
So we're going to add a Boolean
attribute to it that NSBox didn't
have that just keeps track of
whether the box is expanded.
We'll also internally keep
track of the other frame value,
the other rectangle that the view should
have when it's in its other state.
So we're going to add the
expanded Boolean attribute,
and then we're going to implement
key-value coding compliant accessors
for the expanded attribute.
You know, naturally you want to implement
accessors for any attribute.
It's good to make them
key-value coding compliant,
and in fact it's necessary if
you want to make that attribute
bindable in the future.
So key-value coding compliance mainly,
if you're not familiar with it,
just has to do with the naming
conventions for the methods,
so that we can programmatically say,
you know, we've got a string expanded,
and we want to know what the possible
getter and setter methods are.
So isExpanded qualifies in this case.
It's a Boolean attribute.
So we're going to have an
isExpandedGetter method that reports
the current state of the view,
and then we'll add a setExpanded
method that sets the view,
toggles it to the other state,
assuming that the state you're asking
for is different from the current one.
And when that gets invoked,
it's going to remember the
current frame size of the view,
and then toggle to the other
frame size that it's cached.
And to make things more interesting,
we're going to animate that
transition to the new frame size,
and in effect,
we'll also look at animating
groups of these boxes together and
what it takes to coordinate that.
To facilitate this kind of animation,
I mean, you could kind of do this
kind of stuff yourself before,
but now we've got a built-in facility in
AppKit that's the beginning of probably
a growing facility that we'll have for
supporting all kinds of animation stuff.
If you look in NSAnimation.h,
we've got two new animation classes.
NSAnimation is the base class,
and it handles all the basic
functionality that you might expect.
So you can do some timing, you know,
keeping track of the current time value
and advancing it as the clock ticks,
the real-time clock ticks by,
starting and stopping animations.
You can do more sophisticated things with
chaining multiple animations together.
So say you have animation
B and you want it to start,
you know,
three-quarters of the way through
animation A or when animation A finishes,
so you can do that with NSAnimation,
the functionalities in the API.
We also have some built-in animation
progress curves to give you sort
of -- so you don't have to have,
like, just a linear motion.
You can have some
acceleration and deceleration.
We define a few standard curves for you.
And there's a delegate mechanism
in there so that you can do
certain kinds of customization
of NSAnimation's behavior without
having to subclass it necessarily.
But for most everyday
stuff that you want to do,
you might want to just, you know,
move a view across your window or resize
it a bit or fade some things in or out.
And for that, we provide NSViewAnimation,
which you can use just out of the box to
do some real basic kinds of animations,
moving views, changing their origins,
changing their frame sizes.
We stretch and shrink the
content as we do that.
And you can even do some fading in
and out kind of effects with that.
Here again,
we have four standard animation
curves built into NSAnimation.
NSAnimation Ease In/Out might be just
the one you want to use by default.
It is the curve that we use.
For sheets and drawers in the
Aqua UI to give them sort of this
accelerate slowly and start moving
and then decelerate slowly at the end.
So if you want to have consistency,
you can use that curve.
We've also got the ease in
curve and ease out curve.
And if you just want a linear function
of position as a function of time,
you can have that.
And if you want to add
additional user-defined
curves of your own imagining,
you can certainly do that
by subclassing NSAnimation,
for example.
So let's say you want to take this and
use it to animate one or more views.
What do you do?
I'll go through this fairly quickly
because this was also discussed
in the Cocoa Makeover talk,
so I assume maybe you've
had a chance to see it.
In any case, it's fairly straightforward.
First, we build an animation description,
which is an array of
NSDictionary instances.
And then we're going to pass that
animation description in when we create
an NS view animation instance from it.
So basically,
a single NS view animation can
coordinate many simultaneous animations.
And so you just create a dictionary
for each thing that you want to animate
describing how you want to animate it.
Once we have the
NSView animation instance,
we set the duration of the animation.
We want it to be one second,
half a second, 10 seconds.
We can set that.
We can set the blocking mode.
Animations can run both
synchronously or asynchronously.
So if it's synchronous, it's blocking,
in other words.
Then when you tell the
animation to start,
you're not going to return from
that start animation message.
It will return to you after
the animation has finished.
So if you're doing your
animation blocking,
then as soon as you do start animation,
you can come back and go ahead and
release the animation instance.
You're all done, and you can clean up.
So what this looks like in code is this.
This is the first step where you
set up the array of dictionaries.
And each dictionary is fairly simple.
We have a target key that
specifies either a view or a
window that is to be animated.
That is required.
And then you have optional
start and end frames.
Usually the start frame,
you just let it be implicitly set
as the current frame of the view.
You're going to start where you are,
define a new end frame,
and then you optionally
can specify an effect,
which right now is either fading
the view in or fading the view out.
Most of the time, if you're just going to
move a view or resize it,
you'll have a target and end frame,
and that's all you need in there.
And then you have additional
dictionary instances for each
thing that you want to animate.
Now we create our NSView animation,
just like I said, pretty straightforward.
Pass it the array of dictionaries,
set the blocking mode that we want,
duration, start it,
and then we're doing it
synchronous so we can release it.
So let's look at this back on demo one.
And I will open up--we've
got two projects,
project files here.
I'm going to go to the top level project,
which is Reducer, the application itself.
And here's our collapsible box class.
And as you can see,
it's mostly boilerplate legal disclaimer.
It's a simple subclass of NSBox.
Here's our expanded attribute here.
The public attribute that
we have accessors to set.
Here's where we cache
the other frame size.
We also have a facility for a
delegate that can be used to help
customize the animation behavior.
I'll talk about that in a minute.
That's used to coordinate animation
of multiple sibling collapsible boxes.
We've got another form of the
SetExpanded accessor that is actually
the final point for SetExpanded with an
animate parameter so we can tell it to
expand or collapse without animating.
For example, we'll want this later
in Interface Builder.
We'll look at that.
So if we do have a delegate,
it's going to implement this method
that we'll go ahead and send.
We'll say, "Okay, if we have a delegate,
should this collapsible box
animate to this new frame?"
And you can tell me yes or no,
if I should do it or not,
and we pass in whether we're
expanding or collapsing.
So let's look at the
implementation real quick.
It's pretty straightforward,
as you would expect.
SetExpanded by default calls SetPanded.
By default, it calls SetExpandedAnimate
with a parameter of yes.
So we go in here.
This is sort of our main funnel point.
If we're going into a different
state than the current state,
remember the new state and get
the other frame that we've cached
and animate to the new frame
size using this method here,
SetFrameSizeAnimate,
which when we go to that--
is going to check, you know, first,
do we want to animate this or
do we want to do it right away?
Let's assume we're going to animate it.
We calculate the new frame,
and this is only non-trivial because
remember that the default coordinate
system for most views is not flipped.
So the y-axis is pointing up.
So in this case, we have these boxes,
and when a box resizes smaller,
we want the top edge of the box
to stay pinned and the bottom
edge to kind of slide up there.
And what actually,
what this means when you're
in a non-flipped coordinate
system is that the frame,
you're actually changing the origin too,
right, because the origin is down
on the bottom of the box.
So we've got to both shrink the size
of the box and also shift it up by
the same amount at the same time.
So all this is is a little utility
method here that will figure out whether
the parent view is flipped and do the
math and get the new frame for the new
size so that we stay pinned to the top.
Now here's our chance
for animation delegate,
if we have one,
to handle the animation itself.
And if it reports that it doesn't
want us to do the animation,
we go ahead and return out.
We'll look at that in a bit.
But ordinarily,
let's say we just have this box
that's standing alone and we just
want to expand or collapse it,
then this is the simplest
case of the animation.
We're creating the animation array.
This is all exactly like
I had it on the slides.
Here's the single dictionary
we're passing in because we're
only animating this one box,
so the target is self.
And the end frame is the new frame that
we calculated wrapped up in an NS value
so we can stick it in a dictionary.
And we go ahead and set the parameter,
create the animation, set the parameters,
start it, and release.
And then if we're not animating, well,
we'll go ahead and just do a very quick,
immediate set frame size.
So we have the option of not animating.
Now what are we going to do, though,
when we have-- if we look at Reducer,
we have these boxes.
And normally, I expand and collapse this.
It doesn't just expand
and collapse in place.
We have these other views beneath it,
the border and shadow views
that slide up and down.
How do we coordinate all of this?
These are all sibling views here,
so we need some sort of higher
level object that's ideally
outside of the collapsible box
itself that will coordinate it
and its siblings in animating.
So that's what this
delegate mechanism is for.
So we check here where
we checked at the top,
as I pointed out earlier,
if we have a delegate and the delegate
responds to this selector that we've
defined in our sort of informal protocol,
we'll ask the delegate, you know,
should we go ahead and animate this?
And if it says no,
then we go ahead and return and
we assume that it's going to
handle the animation itself.
So in the case of the reducer app,
the main controller is the
delegate for this animation.
It's just sort of the central
controller object of the application.
And here's our delegate method
that's going to get called by
whichever box happens to be
getting expanded or collapsed.
This message is going to get
sent to the main controller.
And it's just going to go ahead and
send a message to its own class.
I've just abstracted this
out into a class method.
That's the way the code's structured.
And we'll return no and say, you know,
we've taken care of this because
I want to coordinate these
animations and do them myself.
So here we've got this
method that I've defined,
animate view and siblings target frame.
I just arbitrarily designed that was
going to be my method signature there.
And so what we need to do is
first compare the new target frame
to the current frame of the box
that's being collapsed or expanded.
And from that I get this y offset.
I calculate the value that tells
me how much I need to shift
the boxes below it up or down.
And we go ahead in here.
We're going to, again,
create a mutable array that will
be our animation description list.
And then we know we want to animate the
target view that's been passed into us.
That's the box that the user
has expanded or collapsed.
So great.
We're going to add that one.
Now we're going to go ahead and
get a list that includes all it
and all of its sibling views.
So we'll get the target view super view.
We'll ask it for all of its sub views.
And then we'll iterate through them,
real simple iteration by index.
And for each of those siblings,
as long as it's not the target view,
which we already took care of,
we'll get the old siblings frame.
And basically, we do a comparison here,
a coordinate comparison, to see, hey,
is that below the view that
I'm expanding or collapsing?
In other words, do I need to animate it?
And if so, we go ahead and apply the same
y offset there to its frame.
Add that.
So we're building dynamically,
in this case, the animation list.
And then once we have
that description list,
we go ahead and instantiate
the NSVU animation,
all straightforward stuff.
And we're going to do it blocking.
And we're going to shoot for
about a quarter of a second.
And it will just go.
And then we release
our animation resource.
And we're done.
You know, one further step that
you might take this is,
you know, okay,
we're reclaiming this window space,
you know, maybe we want to actually,
you know, shrink the window or something,
unless we're going to use
it for something else.
Maybe if we had our
image view down there,
we might want to have the image
view expand or something like that.
But in this case,
we might want to animate the window too.
So how might you do that?
I'll leave that as an exercise to you.
I'll probably add it at some point in
the reducer example in a future version.
But if we can go back to slides,
I'll tell you briefly
how you would do that.
Naively, you might think,
and I would do this too,
you might think that you could
just build an animation description
that includes not just these boxes,
but say the tab view that surrounds them,
and also the window itself,
and just go ahead and
execute that animation.
Well, due to the way that we kind
of have to cache things,
we try to make things efficient,
we tend to cache images of views,
that might not just work.
In fact, it won't just work right
out of the box that way.
But the good news is,
is that we have this existing
facility for view auto-sizing,
the springs and struts model
that you're familiar with,
setting an interface builder,
setting your springs and
your views so that they,
the layout of your window updates.
If your window is resizable,
the user can drag it any which way,
and your window will
automatically resize itself.
So if you leverage this facility in
conjunction with NSViewAnimation,
then all you really need
to do is use a single view
animation with a single target,
animate the window, and let the springs
and struts do the rest.
And this is what we're going to do.
This gives you,
this is a way that you can combine
an existing Cocoa facility with
a new NSViewAnimation stuff to
do something more complicated.
[Transcript missing]
And this will create a
project with two targets,
one that is a framework that
contains just your views,
and one that is a palette.
And what a palette is
is a loadable bundle.
It's sort of a plug-in that
Interface Builder knows how
to load that follows certain
semantics for being an IB plug-in.
[Transcript missing]
So there are a few further steps
required to put a view in a palette,
and I'll be daunted by this list.
Only the stuff on the
top is really required,
and it's really pretty straightforward.
But the main gotcha to watch
out for is when you instantiate
most palettes in Xcode,
most templates, sorry,
when you instantiate a typical Xcode
template like new Cocoa application,
new document-based application,
you can usually just go
ahead and build that,
and right away you get a
functioning application.
But because of the way the limitations
in the template instantiation
mechanism that's currently there,
there are going to be a
couple things that aren't set
that are going to break this.
So what you need to do is
go into your two nib files,
your palette nib and your inspector
nib that are created with the template,
open those up in Interface Builder,
go to the files owner object,
and you'll find that
its class is not set.
If you go to the fifth panel in the
inspector and to the custom class,
you'll see that it's not set.
So all you need to do is set it to the
name of your existing inspector class,
and then you can build,
and things will start to work.
After that,
what you need to do for each of
your custom views is just have them
implement the basic archiving methods,
init with coder and encode with coder,
so that your view knows how,
not only how to archive itself out to a
nib when Interface Builder saves the nib,
but also remember archiving is the
mechanism used for drag and drop
and copying stuff on the pasteboard.
So, you know,
when you go in and you've got your
custom view on your palette and you
start dragging it out into a window,
we're actually going to
archive that instance.
It's a live object.
It's going to get archived,
put on the pasteboard,
and when you drop it,
it's going to get unarchived,
and you've got a live
object in your window.
So this is a requirement,
but it's something you
might be doing anyway.
And then you want to implement all
your--make sure that all your setter
accessors for the view for various
state that affects how the view looks.
We'll do a set needs display.
We'll tell AppKit, "Oh,
my state has changed.
This part of myself or the whole view
needs to be redisplayed at some point.
You're probably going to
need to do this anyway,
but I just point it out because
it's important for interaction in
IB." And then you're going to want
to factor out some of your code for
initializing the attributes that your
custom view class does not inherit,
all the ones that it
adds to its superclass.
And we'll look at why that's
helpful in a little bit.
Then you can add some
optional polish from there.
You can build an inspector
for your view's properties.
That, I would say,
is some very good polish
to add that completes it.
You can add, you know,
a little icon for your palette that will
show up in this sort of toolbar-like
strip that's at the top of the palette.
You can expose interesting
attributes of your views as bindable.
We'll look at that.
And you can do other--there are
some other neat tricks you can do.
Like, for example,
if you want to display sort of a
preview stub of your view down in
the palette that looks different than
your view or is maybe shrunk down
because your view is way too big,
you can just put something like an
image view in there with a stock image.
And we provide a place where
you can do some sleight of hand.
And as it's being dragged out,
you can swap in your own
actual object instance,
your own image instance,
your instance of your custom
view in place of the image,
let's say.
So there's some tricks
like that you can do.
But the basics are pretty simple, right?
Just instantiate the template,
the IB palette template.
Set the file's owners
in the two nib files.
Make sure you implement archiving.
And you're pretty much ready to go there,
at least for the basics.
So I mentioned exposing bindable
attributes for your custom views.
How exactly do you do that?
First step, as I said,
is to provide key-value
coding-compliant accessors.
We already looked at this.
You follow the naming convention that's
specified in the KVC documentation,
and you will be golden.
And this is really all you need in
order for this particular attribute
to be bindable programmatically.
But let's say, you know,
we've got this bindings
inspector in Interface Builder,
and you want to be able to
bind to that visually in IB.
So what you want to do is use the
expose binding message that can
be sent to your object's class.
So a good convenient place.
You do this once for each
attribute you want to expose,
and you do it once for the class for
each attribute you want to expose.
So a good convenient place to do this
is in your class's initialize method.
Here we have collapsible box.
It has an initialize method
that we've given it as a class.
And we go ahead and we want to
expose the expanded binding.
All you do is specify the
string value of the attribute.
The name of the attribute is expanded.
And with key-value coding,
bindings will know that it
should use set expanded and is
expanded to access that attribute.
So you go ahead and do this once for each
of the attributes you want to expose,
and that's pretty much it.
And then you end up with,
here on the right-hand side,
you can see our attribute is
right there in Interface Builder.
And you can go wild with this,
keep adding attributes
that you want to bind,
and key-value binding does
the rest pretty automatically.
Now you want to create an
inspector for your view,
let's say.
This is pretty
straightforward and simple.
You just need to create outlets.
You're going to presumably have
some controls that you want to add.
In this really trivial
example of collapsible box,
you've just got an expanded
checkbox that you want to put
there in the inspector in IB,
and that's going to enable you to
toggle the expanded state of the
box while you're inspecting it.
So you're going to create,
we'll create an outlet
from the inspector object,
which is sort of a controller
for that inspector panel,
remember, and we'll, so we can connect to
that box and talk to it.
Then we will wire the action, the action,
target action message of that checkbox
and of any other controls that we decide
to add to the inspector so that they
send the okay message to the inspector.
You'll find in the template
when you instantiate it,
there are stubs for
okay and revert message.
Okay is for committing changes
from the inspector controls
into your view instance,
and then revert is for doing sort
of an undo operation where we take
all the state from the view itself
and push it into the controls.
So this is all sort of done, you know,
pretty simply the old fashioned
way right now using the sort
of target action approach.
We realized it would be
desirable to be able to build
inspectors with bindings one day,
and we're looking at ways
that you could do that.
We don't have a recommended
approach just yet.
but that may be coming so
So last thing I mentioned,
it's handy for reasons that we'll
see in the demo shortly to take
the initialization of default
values for whatever attributes
you add to your view and factor
that out into a separate method,
because you're going to want to be able
to call that from two different places.
The palette object has a finish
instantiate method that you can
think of as pretty much-- this
is a wake from nib for a palette,
more or less.
This is the message that IB sends
the palette after it's loaded up,
and now you get a chance to do whatever
other initialization you need to do
to get your palette ready to go and
to get the object instances on it,
in this case, fully initialized.
So let's go back to demo one, please.
And we'll take a quick
look at the palette.
It's fairly straightforward.
So let's see.
Once you have the sample code,
you'll see there's a
collapsible box subfolder.
And this here is my IB palette.
I built this exactly like I told you,
from an IB palette template in Xcode.
And I've since added a
couple of custom views to it.
So we've got our collapsible box here,
referencing the same source files
that's built into the framework.
Here's our palette target.
And among its resources,
it's got a single palette nib.
And if we open that up,
we can take a quick look.
It's got our collapsible box
here and a couple of other custom
views that I'll get to later.
Then we've got an inspector
for the collapsible box,
which is really just
boring and dead simple.
There's our expanded check box.
And then here's our palette object.
Pretty straightforward.
We've given it an outlet to each
of the prototype instances on the
palette so that we can identify,
okay, here's our collapsible box
prototype that people can drag out.
Also,
and you'll find this is automatically
done for you below the template,
Interface Builder requires every view
that you put on a palette and want
to have an inspector for to implement
this method inspector class name.
That all it does is return as a string
the name of the inspector class,
which usually is pretty simply composed
or derived from the name of the class.
So here we have a collapsible
box inspector that corresponds
to our collapsible box.
And here in the palette,
we have our finish instantiate method,
and we're going to tell each of
our prototype views to finish
doing its initialization.
And for collapsible box,
what we have here,
we just have this expanded attribute.
We want to make it yes by default,
let's say.
And we want to assume some default
other frame size for when we toggle.
So we're sending this init added
properties message from init with
frame so that we're invoking a
common code from there that we would
otherwise maybe put inline right there.
And then we're also using
it from the palette object,
as I showed you here.
The inspector is pretty straightforward.
I won't spend a lot of time on it.
Most of this is boilerplate code,
but the interesting stuff is
the stuff I've inserted here.
Here we're setting the expanded attribute
of the object from the checkbox state
and vice versa for the revert method.
And so if we go into interface builder,
you know--oops.
Oh, that's not--oh, we seem to be missing
our templates again.
Okay.
Well,
let's say I have an existing nib file,
which I do here, hopefully.
Okay, let's just take this here
and kind of mess with it.
So I can go here and
here in my palette view,
This here is our collapsible box palette,
and it's just loaded right up there.
So it's a peer along with all the
other-- here we have our controllers
for key value binding and so forth.
And it's a first class
citizen right there.
And I can take my collapsible
box and drag it off.
And I've got-- this is the box itself,
and I've got a few controls in it.
I've got a default disclosure button.
Let's say that I want to bind the
value of that button to something.
The focus of this presentation is on
the new capabilities of Cocoa Graphics.
The emphasis will be on the
new capabilities in Tiger,
such as drawing redirection, NSAnimation,
live resizing, view binding, and more.
Troy Stephens
You can see it in the inspector.
And this is our attribute
that we exposed,
and it's bindable now.
Whoa, I'm getting in a little
trouble with that.
Let's bind the expanded
attribute to the same value.
And so when we go into
test interface mode,
it doesn't quite sync up
till after the first time.
But now, you know,
this works right in test interface mode.
And yet, we also want the box
to toggle immediately.
When we toggle the attribute here,
we don't want to bother animating it.
So we've got some special
behavior in there.
And that's just one more bit of code
I want to call your attention to here.
I should call my own
attention to it first.
There's a check you can
make to see whether you are
running in Interface Builder.
I'm sure I will find this code
later when I am looking for
something entirely different.
So let's go ahead and go back to
slides because I want to move along.
We've got some more stuff
to talk about today.
So next thing I want to look
at is implementing this hybrid
image view that I talked about.
And we're just going to
look at this really briefly.
I'll give you an overview.
I won't go through the code step by step.
And to understand why we might want this,
we need to understand a little bit
about how the image reducer works.
The image reducer, again,
is the image reduction engine in the app.
And it's just sort of a black box,
or I guess a red box here in this slide.
We give it an image in.
We give it some parameters.
We get an image out,
and we can save it to a file
or display it on the screen.
We're going to use Core Image to
do some of this work.
And when Core Image was added
to the picture in Tiger,
we added some bridge work to
AppKit to help make it easy for you
to convert between the two worlds,
because we really do have two
worlds with sort of similar but
differently implemented concepts.
In AppKit, we have support for images,
of course,
and different image representations,
including bitmaps.
We have our concept of
color and graphics context,
and Core Image is the same.
Core Image has a CI image,
which is really sort of more a recipe
for drawing an image on demand when you
ask for it to be composited somewhere.
And they also have a
CI color representation and
a CI context for drawing.
So we added some bridge work that
you will find declared mostly
in NSColor.h and NSCIImageRep.h.
So we've created a new image
representation class that
you can add to an image.
So you can now have a--if
you have a CI image that
you've taken out of a filter,
you can add that by wrapping
it in an NSCIImageRep.
Just add it,
and then you can add that to an image.
And anywhere you can
use an NSImage in Cocoa,
you can have an image that is defined
by a chain of Core Image filters
that does some processing when
it actually composites the image.
So that sort of makes it more
invisible that you're using a CI image.
And likewise,
we also have the ability to convert
a bitmap image rep to a CI image.
Vice versa, we can convert between an
NSColor and a CI color.
And if you have an NSGraphics
context that you're drawing into,
you can get a CI context from it so that
you can then ask the CI to do the same.
You can then ask the CI context, "Hey,
draw this CI image effectively into
this NSGraphics context." So using that,
how do we implement
the ImageReducer class?
We'll zoom in a little bit.
Again, we've got our black box here.
Put an image in.
We've got a bitmap image rep out.
And how that image processing
pipeline works is...
We start, remember an NS image in
Cocoa can be any kind of image.
It might be a PDF image,
it might be something vector
maybe the user has dragged in.
It's not necessarily a bitmap,
or if it is a bitmap,
it might be what we call a cached
image rep that is the result of
some processing that we've kept
in an off-screen window somewhere.
So it's a bitmap,
but it's not in main memory,
so you can't access the
pixel data quite the same.
So, but what you can do,
you get an NS image,
you can walk its list of representations
and see if it has a bitmap image rep.
If not, we can create one, a new one,
and composite the image into it.
So we've got our bitmap image rep,
and now we want to convert
that to a CI image,
because you can only make
a CI image from a bitmap.
And then we bring Core Image in,
and we want to take that CI image,
and we'll make it the input image
of a scale transform filter.
The Lanso Scale Transform that's
in there is kind of a nice
scaling filter that will reduce
the amount of blurring you get,
but maybe we still want
to sharpen the image,
so we'll take the output of that filter,
hook it into an unsharp mask filter,
make it the input image to that.
Now the next stuff we want to
do is add the border and shadow,
right?
So we want to do those.
You can maybe, with some tweaking,
you can figure out how to do this kind
of stuff right in Core Image itself,
but let's say we need
to do this in Quartz,
so we're going to take that
CI image that's the output image
of the unsharp mask filter,
go ahead and create a
bitmap image rep from it.
So we're basically, at this point,
we're forcing the CI image to
render and give us some pixels
that we can access in main memory.
Once we've got that,
it's easy to go ahead and add
the border and the shadow,
and that's pretty much it.
And now that we've got this architecture,
it would actually be trivially
easy to add additional layers,
additional effects,
let's say after or before the unsharp,
let's say, you know,
we want to apply a bloom filter,
some kind of artistic effect,
you can go ahead and do that,
and it's dead easy once you've got this.
You can go ahead and insert
new filters in the chain,
and it's really building up the
groundwork that takes the time.
It's trivially easy to extend,
so you can do that as an exercise too.
But there's sort of an interesting
performance issue here,
because as I said,
when we go to grab the CI image
out and get a bitmap from it,
obviously we have to do that if
we want to save it as a JSON,
peg say, but let's say that we want to
Let's say that we're just
displaying it on the screen.
We don't necessarily have to do that.
And when we force the CI image to
render into a bitmap image rep,
we're pulling pixel.
We're not only rendering the pixel data,
which is probably happening
on the graphics card,
but then we're pulling the pixel
data across to main memory,
which is sort of the fast path.
That's not the reverse commute.
That's not the way you want to go.
So that's potentially costly to do.
So let's say maybe we're not
adding a border and a shadow.
We want to be able to take a shortcut and
keep all the data on the graphics card,
which is where Core Image usually
processes stuff.
Let's say we want to just get the
CI image out in that special case.
And what that enables us to do is then
render the CI image more efficiently.
And the most efficient way to render
a CI image is directly using OpenGL.
So what we'd like to do is
draw using Quartz sometimes or
draw using OpenGL other times.
So you may be familiar
with the NSOpenGL classes.
We have three in AppKit that provide
basic bridge work so that you can use
OpenGL in your Cocoa applications.
We have NSOpenGL context,
which is a context to which
you issue rendering commands,
pixel format that's just
used to create the context.
And then usually, customarily,
you use the context
with an NSOpenGL view.
And that OpenGL view you can
create in a palette or whatever.
But a thing to note about
NSOpenGL context that people don't always
notice is that when you look at the
accessors for associating it with a view,
they just specify an NS view.
They don't specify an NSOpenGL view.
And in fact,
NSOpenGL view is kind of really
a lightweight convenience.
You can really just take any ordinary
NS view and point an NSOpenGL context
at it and do some GL rendering into it.
And so that's what
we're going to do here.
So I'm just going to talk
briefly about how you do that.
Once you know that you can do this,
it's very straightforward how you do it.
You create an instance.
Let's say we want to
switch to OpenGL drawing.
We create an instance
of NSOpenGL context.
We connect it to the view by
sending it a set view message.
OK, here's your view that
you're going to draw into.
We'll make the context current by sending
it a make current context message,
and so therefore, all subs are subsequent
OpenGL API calls will go to that
context in our current thread.
We go ahead and perform
whatever OpenGL initialization
we might need to do,
setting up coordinate systems and
drawing parameters and so forth.
And then we'll go ahead and draw
the views content using GL calls.
One thing that can happen here if
we implement this naively is that we
might get sort of a brief flash on
the screen as the user switches into
OpenGL mode or out of OpenGL mode.
And what's going on
here is under the hood,
when you associate an
OpenGL context with a view,
you're going to see that the interface
is actually creating a hardware surface,
which is sort of a little backing
store that floats over the window and
Quartz compositor composites it in.
So it just kind of looks
like it's just in the view,
but it's really floating there.
And so that surface comes in,
and the compositor in Quartz might
go ahead and flush everything
out and composite it to the
display before you have the chance
to render your first GL frame.
So what we've added in Tiger is a
minor new feature in NSWindow to
help with this kind of situation.
And it's called the "disable screen
updates" and it's a really simple method.
It's a little bit more complicated
than the other methods that
people sometimes encounter.
We have this method,
disable screen updates until flush.
You send this message to a window,
and all it does is it immediately
tells the window-- it go ahead and
uses the public NS disable screen
updates call to suspend screen updates,
and then the window makes a note, OK,
next time I'm flush to the screen,
next time I do some drawing,
I'll go ahead and re-enable updates
afterwards so everything can flush out.
So this is a feature that
you can use to avoid that.
You might find it interesting when
you get your hands on the sample
code to comment out these lines,
and just so you can see what
happens when you don't do this.
So now we're in open jail mode.
Maybe we want to switch back to Quartz.
We need to do Quartz drawing.
Well, that's even simpler.
We dismiss the context surface.
We send the context a
clear drawable message,
and so the surface will
at this point disappear.
So we might also want to do a disable
screen updates until flush before that.
And then we're done with the context.
We just release it,
and now we can go back
to doing normal drawing.
In this case,
you might want to disable screen
updates because the window backing
store is now going to be exposed,
and maybe it's out of date,
and you haven't had a
chance to draw it yet.
So you want the surface disappearance
to not show up until after you've
had a chance to update the window.
When you do this, it's pretty seamless.
And we can see this in our demo.
If we go back to demo one, please.
I've got Reducer running here.
And this here, this is it.
This is, OK,
right now we're rendering using OpenGL.
I know that because we're not
adding a border or a shadow.
If I add one of those attributes, OK,
now we're rendering using Quartz.
And if I'm putting you to
sleep right now with this demo,
I can completely understand,
because there's nothing to see here.
From a user's perspective,
it's the same thing,
and that's kind of the whole point.
You're just doing something
different under the hood.
But if you study the example code,
you can see how this has happened.
So to try to sort of wake
you up for the next session,
I'll try and show you something a
little more interesting than that.
There's one more custom view that
we haven't talked about yet here.
I decided, why have an ordinary tab view,
boring tab view here,
when we could really spice it up?
And we've got all this
stuff in Core Image,
and in fact,
we have some transition filters.
So why not have it so when
the user clicks the tab,
we do a little ripple animation, right?
And we'll do this again in slow motion,
because you have to
see that and thank you
And all the credit for this really
goes to the Core Image guys.
I mean,
they've done amazing work on this stuff.
And this is just stuff you can
take and use out of the box.
And especially now with some
of the new API facilities and
AppKit that I'll talk about briefly,
you've got a combination.
You can do stuff that, I mean,
we haven't even anticipated yet,
I'm sure,
and I can't wait to see some of it.
So this is the kind of thing--
A few things that I want
you to notice about this.
Let's see, can I magnify this?
When we do the tab switch,
notice that the tabs at the top
and their labels are not animating.
And we've got the border
that's still drawing as normal.
And in fact,
the metal window background behind
this is staying static as we animate.
So we're really just--
we've got the content there,
and we've got it in some sort of
transparent representation where we
can just blip the content on and put
it through the transition filter.
And in fact, here I've got just a
little IB test window.
And if I go to Interface Test Mode here
in Interface Builder-- or actually,
if we look at these
first with the inspector,
We'll see that each of these,
and I've got an inspector for this,
I've put some radio buttons.
We've got eight standard transitions that
Core Image supports out of the box and
the potential for people to add more.
But I've got, so I've got one, you know,
tab view here with some
random stuff in it.
Using the copy machine transition,
the disintegrate with mask transition,
dissolve, flash, modulate, page curl,
ripple, and swipe.
And I've got these all bound
together to the same value,
so if I just start them going,
they'll all show you it.
You know, once I had this working with
one of these transition filters,
it was really nominally easy,
it was trivial to get it working
with each of the other ones.
And again,
thank you to the Core Image team
for doing all this stuff and
making me look good here.
So, what I really want to talk
about in the time that we have
left is how do we do this?
Because, really, you need this.
You need to have this
in your applications,
right?
This kind of stuff.
This is mission critical.
So, if we could go back to slides.
So I kind of lied.
We got one more custom view in the
example that I didn't mention before.
We've got the animating tab view,
which is a subclass of NSTabView that
does this fancy transition.
So we'll first look
conceptually at how we do this,
and then I'll walk you through the code.
It's pretty straightforward once
you figure out how to do it.
So we're combining three powerful
capabilities here to do this,
to pull this off.
We're combining, obviously,
core image transition filters,
which are doing most
of the heavy lifting.
And then we've also got an NSAnimation
that is just driving the time value
of the transition filter forward,
because you set up a transition
filter and you iterate your
time from 0 to 1 to advance the
animation until it's completed.
And then, as I said,
we kind of want to be able to
grab these sort of transparent
snapshots of view subtrees so
we can know what we're animating
from and to as bit mapped images.
So we're using new view drawing
redirection methods that are
available in AppKit in Tiger in
order to facilitate this.
So here we've got our--
this is our basic model.
We get a snapshot of the content
that we've currently got right
before we make the transition,
and then we grab a snapshot of the
content that we want to transition to.
So we've got two bitmaps.
We use those,
wire those up as the input images of a
CI ripple transition filter in this case,
or any of the other transition filters.
We use an NSAnimation to drive
the time value again from 0 to 1
over the course of the animation.
And then at various points,
at intervals along the
course of the animation,
we're going to sample the output image.
We ask the ripple transition
filter for its output image.
It says, OK, gives us a CI image.
And then when we composite
that in to the window,
we'll get the state of the
animation for that frame,
for that instant in time.
[Transcript missing]
And you end up with this.
You end up with something that
includes transparency in the
background if your view subtree doesn't
completely draw opaque over everything.
And so you can put it on top of
any kind of background you want,
and you can see that it only draws
where those controls actually draw.
So this is the complete set of
methods that I'm referring to as
the drawing redirection methods
that we've added in Tiger.
The one for getting the bitmap,
one for caching display in REC.
There's sort of a lower level funnel
point method that actually implements
most of the machinery of getting that
subtree to display into that bitmap.
Or actually, in this case,
it lets you display into
an arbitrary context.
Usually this is a graphics context
that you create with a bitmap.
This complements the
existing display methods.
We have several methods,
I think nine or ten or so,
on NSView that start
with the word display.
And they all kind of do different
flavors of the same thing.
This is a new one,
Display Rect Ignoring Opacity in Context.
All that ignoring opacity means is that
for the view display methods that don't
include ignoring opacity in the name,
they'll actually say, oh, well,
I'm not an opaque view.
Maybe I need to walk up the view
tree and ask some ancestors to start
displaying because I need their
background behind me so that I can draw,
because I think I'm drawing in a window.
But for drawing-- you just want to
ignore that opacity and just start
with the view that the developer
has asked you to start with,
and go ahead and recurse
down and draw the subviews.
So all that CacheDisplay
in Rec does really for you,
it creates an NSGraphicsContext for
drawing into the bitmap image rep.
This is a thing that you can use
separately from ViewCaching 2,
the new facility here.
You see NSGraphicsContext has
this new method for allocating
a graphics context that you can
use to draw into a memory bitmap.
So the CacheDisplay in
Rec method does that for you,
creates the graphics context,
and then it will also
set up a translation.
So if the rect that you're sampling
is sort of a subrect of the view,
then you can--usually
you want to just cache,
you don't want to allocate a big
huge image just to cache this
part of the view just because its
origin happens to be over here.
So we set up a translation to
translate that portion to the
origin of the bitmap for you.
But if you want to do some
other kinds of transformations,
before you do that, you can do that.
Before we do the drawing
of the view subtree,
you know, knock yourselves out,
you can use the
DisplayRecIgnoringOpacityInContext
method as your funnel point to do
that kind of stuff and just sort of
set up the graphics context yourself.
It's pretty straightforward to do.
So let's go back one more time and
look at the example code for this.
and we're running a little short on time,
so I'm not going to spend
too much time on this,
but once you've got the concept
of what we're doing here,
the rest is just mechanics and
it's pretty straightforward.
So here's our animating tab view.
And we've actually got a
declaration in the header.
These just map our constants that map
to the different transition filters
that Core Image currently provides us.
So the attributes of-- the
main inspectable attribute,
the only inspectable attribute
of the animating tab view
is its transition style.
And then also we have some
state that we maintain during
the course of the animation.
Here's the transition filter,
a pointer to the transition
filter we're going to use.
A shading image that some of the filters
require an auxiliary image that's
used to help composite the effect.
An input mask is something
that other filters use.
Then a rectangle in which we're going
to composite the image when we're done.
An NSAnimation to drive the time
value of the transition filter.
And then a little flag in here that
lets me do that spiffy slow motion demo.
I love it when it does that.
OK.
So interesting stuff here is it turns
out that Select Tab View Item is
pretty much the funnel point for
anything that can possibly change
the current selection in NSTabView.
And so that's very convenient.
That's what I'm going to override
as our means of doing the animation.
And oh, here's the thing that
I wanted to show you.
I told you it would turn up
when I was least looking for it.
So for example,
when we're inspecting one of these in IB,
if I change the tab item,
I don't want to sit through
the animation there,
especially if I set to a
long duration or something.
I just want to do the immediate
switch when I'm editing the interface,
have everything be really quick in IB.
So here's a way that you can
test whether your class is
running under Interface Builder.
Interface Builder's application
instance-- remember,
there's a global NSApp variable.
That's one of our few
global variables in Cocoa.
It points to your global
application instance.
If it responds to the
IsTestingInterface selector,
you pretty much can assume
that this is Interface Builder
that you are running under.
And then if you know that you're
running under Interface Builder,
there's a further query that you
can do called IsTestingInterface.
So you can say, OK,
I'm in Interface Builder,
but am I in Interface Test Mode,
or am I just in normal editing mode?
So here I'm saying, OK,
if I'm just in normal editing mode,
not Interface Testing Mode,
then I'm going to go ahead
and just do the quick,
immediate-- call supers implementation--
immediately select the new tab view item.
But let's say we're going to animate,
because that's the interesting part.
All we've got to do is ask the new
tab view item for its content view,
and we've got our current content view.
So we know the view we're going from
that contains all of the content,
all of the sub-controls,
and the view we're going to.
We'll compute a union rectangle
that surrounds both of them.
It turns out in practice they're
going to be the same size.
Tab view maintains them that way.
We'll calculate an image rectangle.
This is where we're going to composite
the image in as we're animating.
And then we're going to go ahead and
capture the content for the initial
view that we're switching from.
And as I said,
if we're doing a page curl,
it looks better if we're
capturing it opaque,
so let's use the old-fashioned
way of doing that.
Here we're using locking focus on
the view using init with focused
view rect to capture the content.
But for most cases,
we want it to be transparent,
so let's use that fancy
new functionality.
Bitmap image rep for caching
display in rect to get the bitmap.
Here's clearing the bitmap.
I've just got a simple function that
you can refer to for doing that.
I'm just going to B0 out the data.
And now we'll cache the data,
cache the image in there using this
new view drawing redirection method.
Now we switch to the new tab view item,
which is going to go ahead and mark
the tab view as needing display.
But fortunately for us,
it's not going to go ahead
and do an immediate display.
So we got our chance to wedge in here
and do the animation before that happens.
We do the same thing with
our final content view.
We'll render its content,
and this time we'll just
do it transparent no matter
what filter we're using,
into a separate bitmap.
So we've got our two
bitmap image reps now.
We'll create CI images from them both.
And now I've got this method of my
own that I've declared above that
we'll look at briefly that's basically
just a big switch statement that says,
"Okay, what kind of filter do we need to
create?" And pretty much it's very
similar code for most of them.
They all take an input
time and two input images,
but some of them have--this
requires a mask bitmap.
So we'll use a mask bitmap
or an environment map or
something to composite in.
So we handle each one a little specially,
but for the most part,
it's the same procedure.
So now we've got the transition filter.
We're going to go ahead
and set up an animation.
What I've done is I've
subclassed NS animation here,
done a real simple subclass so
that I can get a callback from it.
So I've got a tab view animation.
This is a subclass of NS animation,
the sort of more abstract of
the two animation classes.
And we give it a duration,
an animation curve.
And then we'll delegate to self
because I want it to call me back,
the animating tab view,
every time its timer fires,
every time it advances in time.
And then we're going to go ahead and
we're going to hide the final target
content view because as we're animating,
we don't want it to display yet.
So we're using this set hidden method
that's a real convenience that was added,
I think, in Panther.
And we'll start the animation.
And we've set it up to be synchronous
so as soon as we return from that,
we can go ahead and clean up,
tell the view to display
itself one more time so we're
sure it's in its final state.
And that's that.
So down here is the tab view animation,
the NS animation subclass, real simple.
It overrides the set
current progress method,
calls supers implementation,
and then sends its delegate,
which is the animating tab view,
a display message.
And the last bit of code I'm going
to show you here is real simple.
We've overridden the drawRect
method that's responsible
for drawing the tab view.
And what we're going to do
is call supers drawRect.
So we're going to give NS tab
view a chance to draw those
tabs and draw the border.
And because the final
content view is hidden,
and so is the initial
one that's pulled out,
that's all we're going to get it to draw.
And now if we're animating,
then we go ahead and we've
got this transition filter.
We're going to get the current value
from the animation object and wrap
it in an NSNumber and set it as the
input time of the transition filter.
And then we're going to
ask the transition filter
for its output CI image.
So it's going to allocate a new CI image
that's a recipe for producing the
image we want at that point in time.
And then now we're going to just
composite that CI image straight in.
And we've got--this is part of the
bridge work that we provide in AppKit.
You don't need to
really get a CI context.
You can go ahead and
tell the output CI image,
draw itself in a rectangle,
and there we go.
And we've got the--so for
every instant in time,
we're going to redraw the whole view and
just update that part that's animating.
And there we go.
That's all we needed to
do to make this happen.
And as you can see,
this is the kind of thing that
you probably want to use with
some degree of discretion.
I would encourage you, by all means,
discretion is good.
But, you know,
this is really just an example.
I just figured, you know,
I'd wire up these different things
that connect nicely together,
but I'm sure you will find other ways
that they connect nicely together,
maybe even more so,
to use these kinds of capabilities
to do things we haven't thought of.
I mean, once you've got a snapshot as
a bitmap of a view subtree,
you know,
you can take that bitmap and map it
onto some 3D geometry or something
like that in an OpenGL view.
The possibilities are pretty limitless.
So if we could go back to slides,
we'll wrap up now.
Slides, please.
Thank you.
So in conclusion,
we've looked at some powerful
new capabilities in Tiger,
NSAnimation for bringing
your views to life,
ways that you can use
Core Image in a Cocoa application.
And again, all the details are
there in the source code.
It's pretty straightforward.
And I urge you to review
the Core Image sessions.
And there's great
documentation online for this.
We've looked at some new ways that you
can capture snapshots of view subtrees.
And we've looked at some stuff that you
can do on older versions of the system,
even, like using an OpenGL context
with an ordinary view,
creating custom views,
and putting that final bit
of nice polish on your view.
More information.
We have lots of great documentation,
sample code, and resources online.
Again, if you want to get the sample
code for today's session,
go to developer.apple.com/samplecode.
Search for Reducer,
and it's online there.
You can just download
the whole disk image.
Matthew Formica is our Cocoa and
Development Tools evangelist.
He can be reached at mformica@apple.com,
and he can point you in the
right direction if you're
looking for some resources.
And at this point,
I'd like to invite Ali Ozer,
the manager of the
Cocoa Frameworks Group,
and some of my other colleagues
from the AtKit team up to
try to answer your questions.
So thank you very much.